Comments
========

This chapter covers inline commenting in more detail. Inline comments
are all comments not included in doc blocs. The goal of in line
commenting is to explain code in context. Such explanation may take many
different forms.

Comments that are written in a readable and narrative style, especially
when explaining a complex process, are encouraged. In general they
should be placed close to the code explained rather than before the
entire block of code.

Comments should be as sentence like as possible, which is to say that
they should be complete and readable, not in short hand.

Comments are not a replacement for detailed doc blocks. Comments serve
to explain the logic and structure of code itself rather than the use of
code.

Formatting of Comments
======================

Comment blocks that introduce large sections of code and are more than 2
lines long should use /\* \*/ (C) style and should use \* on each line
with the same space/tab rules as doc blocks. If you need a large
introduction consider whether this block should be separated into a
method to reduce complexity and therefore providing a full docblock.

Comments should precede the code they refer to. As a corollary, comments
should not be on the same line as the code to which they refer (which
puts them after the code they reference). They should be on their own
lines.

Don’t use a blank line between comments and the code they refer to (no
space underneath a comment block).

Always have a single blank line before a comment or block of comments.

Comments should align with the code they refer to, using the same
indenting as the line that follows the comment.

Comments should be indented with tabs (like code, not like doc blocks).

Content of comments
===================

Comments should use en-GB (See below).

Always have a space between // and the start of comment text.

New lines should always start with an upper case letter unless The line
is a continuation of a complete sentence The term is code and is case
sensitive.

Code that is included specifically to assure compatibility with other
software (for example specific browsers or a specific version of the CMS
or for backward compatibility reasons) should be clearly marked as such.
If there is the intention to remove specific code at a future point,
state that but do not use a deprecation tag or specify a release (this
can be hard to predict).

Check spelling and grammar on all comments (see below).

Only end a line with a period if it is a full sentence.

Rather than use docblock tags use See:, Link: and Note: for comments if
appropriate.

Do not use HTML in comments unless specifically related to the comment
content.

Do not leave commented code unless there is a clearly explained reason
for doing so. In such a case, a comment saying "Code intentionally
commented" will prevent accidental removal.

Comments may include forward looking statements of how something will be
extended or modified in the future, but not todos indicating that code
is not complete or ready to use.

Remember that humor and sarcasm are difficult to translate.

Acronyms
========

Capitalise all letters of acronyms such as HTML, XML, SQL, GMT, and UTC.
This is an exception to the general use of en-GB rules.

Common spelling and grammar errors to check for
===============================================

Joomla! contributors include many non-native speakers of en-GB which
makes it understandable that there are sometimes spelling and grammar
errors. At the same time, some people reading comments also are non
native speakers and may even use automated translation to understand
comments. This makes it very important that comments should follow
proper en-GB spelling and grammar rules. Unfortunately, these can be
tricky.

Wikipedia provides a good summary of common differences between en-US
and en-GB.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American\_and\_British\_English\_spelling\_differences
Note that there are some instances where en-GB common usage (but not
actual rules) varies slightly from en-AU and using en-AU is considered
acceptable.

n-GB most commonly uses ise where en-US would use ize, such as normalise
instead of normalize. (Note that there are some exceptions to this rule
and some differences between en-GB and en-AU in common usage.)

Use of apostrophes is one of the trickier parts of English.

Lets versus let’s

Lets means permits or allows to:

                    // This lets the user enter data

Let’s is a contraction for let us and means we are going to do this now:

                    // Let’s validate the field

Its versus it’s

Its is the possessive form of it:

                    // Get its ID

It’s is a contraction of it is

    // It’s time to save

The correct Joomla! spelling of some commonly used words.

-   Dependant


